#Comparison – The Fool##Karmic Interpretation####The leap, the plunge, the main chance.It seems to me that “the leap” and “the plunge” are two essential aspects of  “the main chance.” Once the decision is made to take the chance, the first concrete action taken is the leap, which is followed inevitably by the plunge. I also perceive the implication that the stakes are high, higher than they’ve ever been, and that the experience of proceeding forward will feel both terrifying and exhilarating. To take the leap is to accept the plunge for the sake of the main chance. I can relate to the phenomenon based on my own experience, and I perceive a timeless, universal quality to it as the guardian of the threshold. ####Spontaneous, fearless, enthusiastic.The Fool embodies a restlessness that keeps him moving and that is not founded on anxiety but on curiosity, delight, and a craving to experience more. I can easily imagine that this state of perpetual ecstasy inoculates the Fool from the fears so often associated with change and breaking out of the routine. I did not perceive the Fool’s enthusiasm while I was composing my intuitive interpretation, although I now see this element to be at the core of his ability to act spontaneously and without fear. I want to attribute an amount of conscientious concern to the satchel as an indicator of his connection, albeit tenuous, to forethought, planning, and preparation. The presence of this element does not negate spontaneity and fearlessness, but for me it does add nuance. ####Going nowhere, needing nothing, footloose and fancy free.   “Going nowhere” could refer to a sense of aimlessness, or perhaps a state of stagnation. In the Fool’s case, I presume it is an allusion to the former. “Needing nothing” could refer to the Fool’s sense of being completely and perpetually satisfied. It could also mean that the Fool is whole unto himself, in need of nothing supplemental to explain or define him, needing no reason to justify his existence.  I had to look up the meaning of the idiom “footloose and fancy free” just to check my understanding. I confirmed my sense of “footloose” as being carefree and learned that the term “fancy free” refers specifically to one’s state of interpersonal attachment. I apparently disagree that the Fool is “going nowhere,” as my intuitive interpretation suggests that the Fool is headed in a definite direction – the unknown, the future in terms of “leaving the past behind,” and the Wilderness – after opening with a question about both the Fool’s origin and destination. I also clearly questioned whether the Fools is as carefree as he might seem, pointing out that both the presence of a satchel and the symbol on its front flap (which I associated with a more traditional way of life) suggest that he is “toting baggage, holding memories”. However, I also note that the Fool does not seem to carry more than what is needed, which suggests that he is not worried about the future. 

Finally, I read the Fool’s state of detachment a bit more cautiously than not. I reserved for him a sense of receptivity to the presence of others while also noting that he does not seem to cling to what is ultimately transient. ####Uninhibited, uncomplicated, trusting, experiencing the moment and delighting in its fullness.I do not seem to have picked up on the qualities of simplicity and delight-in-the-moment. I read into this sentence a description of the infant within The Fool – that part of ourselves and time in our lives when we respond instantly to whatever stimulates us, we attach without reservation to those who support us, our needs are utterly basic, and the only way we know to be is fully present to the sensations of the moment. Upon further reflection, I am now aware of my initial reluctance to clearly see The Fool’s vulnerability. I wanted him to be strong, confident, daring, adventurous, fearless, and completely safe. I did not want to consider the consequences he may face for walking toward the edge of a cliff without regard for his material situation. It’s uncomfortable to hold both the innocence and powerlessness of the newborn in mind. ####Without a plan or forethought, heedless and appearing frivolous, welcoming the unexpected.Moving on impulse without pausing to reflect; perhaps taking unnecessary risks *and/or* acting without regard for personal safety; self-indulgent, no apparent purpose or direction; responding enthusiastically to the opportunity to change course *and/or* try something new; accepting mistakes/misfortunes with hospitality. Initially I desired to give some sort of linear structure to the Fool’s apparent journey, and to imbue his presence in the world with transcendent purpose. I saw him as the beginning of something big and important, the glimmer of some great future achievement. This aspect challenges that perception. It causes me to reflect on whether I want to continue believing that Life has an essential purpose, and to what extent mastery of Life’s objectives is an important goal. Naturally this train of thought leads me to contemplate my fear of appearing frivolous and hence the seriousness with which I approach my work, the concept of which functions as both stage and plot for the narrative (justification) of my own personal life. …Do I agree with this sentence? What if I did? What might Life be like for me? ####No mother’s choice for her child.As a child is raised by parent(s) within a family unit to become a person who is in a certain way and whose worldview is circumscribed by context, so it can be assumed that if/when the child wanders outside the limits of what is acceptable, s/he will be met with disapproval and be redirected back into bounds. I understand “mother” in this sentence to mean the container within which People live Life. Society’s role in individuals’ lives is to provide structure, boundaries, and context as a means of organizing existence around meaningful, purposeful goals. No society would choose for its individual members to live contrary to its normative behaviors and values. Nor could it. The part of me that reads disapproval into this sentence longs to disagree, hoping to find a Mother who offers nothing but unconditional positive regard. No choice of the child’s is unacceptable to her. However, if the Mother is indiscriminate in her response, the child essentially has no structure for support and definition as a precursor to self-transcendence. The process of testing limits and pushing boundaries is essential for growth. A prerequisite, perhaps. In this regard, how could the Fool be anything other than the challenge to a restricted self-definition? 